# 1. Introduction
### 1.1 Problem Description
Absenteeism is a very common case experienced by employers and it has become a serious problem that emplyers always want to deal with. The UK Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development(also known as CIPD) estimated that employers had to pay £595 on each employee per year and which is cost by 7.6 absent days from each worker on average in 2013[1]. In addition to higher costs, absenteeism might lead to reduced productivity levels and low morale are workplaces. A statistical way to deal with this problem is that we can figure out the most impactive factors that can cause absenteeism and make predictions according to different individuals. If employers can use the results to predict the absenteeism among employees, they can be prepared in advance to deal with the coming problems and reduce extra costs caused by absenteeism. 

To help employers deal with absenteeism related issues, we would like to use statistical way to make predictions and find impactive factors on absenteeism. Our project focuses on using machine learning methods to learn from absenteeism at work data set and make predictions on different individuals after finding out the main factors that would lead to absent from work.

### 1.2 Data Set 
We chose a data set from UCI Machine Learning Repository called "Absenteeism at work Data Set". The data set can be found [here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Absenteeism+at+work) and it is created by Andrea Martiniano, Ricardo Pinto Ferreira, and Renato Jose Sassi from Postgraduate Program in Informatics and Knowledge Management at Nove de Julho University, Rua Vergueiro(235/249 Liberdade, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil). The data was collected at a courier company in Brazil and the database includes records of absenteeism at work in three years starting from July 2007. This data set contains 740 instances with 21 attributes including categorical and numerical ones. Each row represents statistics from a different employee with his/her situations of absence, family, work load and other factors that might be related to his/her absence at work. One of the attributes being absenteeism in hours is our target and our features are: Individual Identification (ID), Reason for absence, Month of absence, Day of the week, Seasons, Transportation Expense, Distance from residence to work, Service Time, Age, Work load Average/day, Hit target (achievement of periodic goals in percentage), Disciplinary failure, Education, Son, Social Drinker, Social smoker, Pet, Weight, Height and Body Mass Index. 

# 2. Potential Approaches

In general, we can divide our project into three phases. Firstly, we are going to do clean the data and do exploratory data analysis with all the data. Then we will split the dataset into a train set and a test set with a ratio of 80%:20%. We want to set up a big picture about data structure and how are the attributes related to each other. Secondly, we chose supervised machine learning methods as our baseline models and then implement those algorithms. The models we have chosen including dummy regressor, ridge regression, decision tree regression, random forest regression and support vector machine with RBF kernel. For each model we pick up the best hyperparameters after implying cross validation with those algorithms. Finally, we will predict on absenteeism time in hours of each individuals in test set with those estimators and test the accuracy. For evaluation metrics, we are going to use mean squared error and R square because we would like to take a wider approach on how the models work. The prediction performance will also be interpreted through confusion matrices. We will evaluate the overall performance for each model with main impactive factors and the results will be included in the final report.

## References
[1] CIPD. (2017). 2016 annual survey report of absence management. Retrieved from absence-management_2016_tcm18-16360.pdf.